DE SHAW INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE- 29TH JULY, 2016
ROUND 1:
About 250 students having (8.5 cgpa) cutoff were shortlisted for an online test in Hackerrank. It consisted of 3 sections-
Section 1: One programming question, which was quite simple, many test cases were based on end cases. (20 minutes)
Question: Given an array find the maximum product of three numbers, n<=10^5, a[i] can be negative.
Section 2: General aptitude, 10 questions which was difficult for most of us. I could get two correct. It was +2 and -0.5 for each question, questions were really long, related to probability and took a long time to solve. Though I wasn’t sure about few other questions I’d marked 4 more and got only 2 marks in that entire section.(20 min)
Section 3: Technical Aptitude, 5 questions related to networking, os, unix. It was easy if your basics were strong.(10 min)
After round one, 17 students were shortlisted for interview. It started the next day from 9:30. 
ROUND 2:
	INTERVIEW 1 (90 minutes):
 This round was technical, the interviewers were really cool and made me comfortable by asking what I thought about the marking scheme and DE Shaw. My resume was only one page and they were impressed by it (I’d specified only 3 of my main projects and had given one or two line description regarding each project).
They asked me to tell me about myself and my project, so I started explaining, and it went on for 30 min, with their questions. Next they started asking many questions related to networking, os, input-output and cao. They asked some general questions about BIOS, CMOS, file systems, difference between windows and linux file structure etc. It was more like a discussion and went smoothly, they mainly saw how much work you’d done in your project and how much did you know.
They had a rapid fire round where they asked about 10 to 15 questions like name the 7 layers of osi, what are necessary conditions for deadlocks, spinlocks vs semaphores etc. 
Questions: How to fix a broken wifi network using cmd, how does mx record work, why windows moved from fat32 to ntfs, how are files stored in linux, in a server cluster how does the server connection shift take place if one of them is broken etc. and many more related to my project, os and cao.
INTERVIEW 2 (30 minutes):
This was HR round, people really chilled in this round too, they asked where am I from. What’s my favorite food, hobbies etc. They later asked to tell something more and interesting. This went on for 30 minutes. 
After the two rounds 3 moved on to the third and final technical round.

INTERVIEW 3 (70 minutes):
They asked if I was tired. Now since the first round was on my project, they asked my language of preference, it was java. A lot of questions on core java topics. They had given few scenarios to which I’d to construct a class. Since I didn’t know the exact answers for few scenarios, I told them my approach about how I thought it could be solved. They asked few programming question, and asked me to improve the complexity and do it in other ways. Puzzles were also asked. Since I didn’t have any database background, they didn’t ask any questions on that.
They asked me to create my own e commerce website in 5 min .(they wanted to know how i'd do it, technically and with a business point of view). 
Questions: Create a class such that “only one” instance of that class is created, why are inner classes used, why are the abstract classes used, questions on overriding and overloading. Write a script to find the number of process running on a particular port and shut down that process. 
Find the minimum time taken for 4 people to cross a bridge. 1, 2, 5 and 8 seconds are the time taken by them respectively, they cannot cross the bridge without torch and they have only one torch and the bridge can only take the weight of two people and the torch. When two people walk, the guy who walks fast must walk at the speed of slow walker (eg: when 2 and 5 walk together they both reach end at 5 second).
Find the unique characters in an array. I’d written first code in O(n) later they asked to improve the complexity.
Two more program and puzzle were asked, I don’t remember it though. But it was solvable with a bit of thinking.
After the final round, results were announced and two of us were given a job offer.
